aesu - The statampere (abbreviated statA or Aesu) is the unit of electric current in the cgs (centimeter/gram/second) system of electrostatic units (esu). It is the equivalent of one statcoulomb (1 statC).
abend -Short for "Abnormal end." An abend is an unexpected or abnormal end to a process. In computer software, it typically refers to a software crash when a program unexpectedly quits. For example, an error in a program's code may cause it to freeze or crash while running a certain command. The result is an unexpected (and often inconvenient) end to the program.
abound - be abundant or plentiful; exist in large quantities. 
access point - An access point is a device, such as a wireless router, that allows wireless devices to connect to a network.
acl - Stands for "Access Control List." An ACL is a list of user permissions for a file, folder, or other object. It defines what users and groups can access the object and what operations they can perform. These operations typically include read, write, and execute. For example, if an ACL specifies read only access for a specific user of a file, that user will be able open the file, but cannot write to it or run the file.
ajax - Ajax is a combination of Web development technologies used for creating dynamic websites. While the term "Ajax" is not written in all caps like most tech acronyms, the letters stand for "Asynchronous JavaScript And XML." Therefore, websites that use Ajax combine JavaScript and XML to display dynamic content.
applet - An applet is a small application designed to run within another application. While the term "applet" is sometimes used to describe small programs included with a computer's operating system, it usually refers to Java applets, or small applications written in the Java programming language.
ascii - Stands for "American Standard Code for Information Interchange." ASCII character encoding provides a standard way to represent characters using numeric codes.
asp.net - ASP.NET is a set of Web development tools offered by Microsoft. Programs like Visual Studio .NET and Visual Web Developer allow Web developers to create dynamic websites using a visual interface. Of course, programmers can write their own code and scripts and incorporate it into ASP.NET websites as well. Though it often seen as a successor to Microsoft's ASP programming technology, ASP.NET also supports Visual Basic.NET, JScript .NET and open source languages like Python and Perl.
avatar - Generally speaking, an avatar is the embodiment of a person or idea. However, in the computer world, an avatar specifically refers to a character that represents an online user. Avatars are commonly used in multiplayer gaming, online communities, and Web forums.
autoresponder - An autoresponder is a program or script on a mail server that automatically replies to e mails.
agp - Stands for "Accelerated Graphics Port." AGP is a type of expansion slot designed specifically for graphics cards.
adapter - An adapter is a device that allows a specific type of hardware to work with another device that would otherwise be incompatible. Examples of adapters include electrical adapters, video adapters, audio adapters, and network adapters.
acknowledge - declare to be true or admit the existence or reality or truth of
administrator - nsomeone who manages a government agency or department
airy -  not practical or realizable; speculative
alcohol - a liquor or brew containing alcohol as the active agent
barring - the act of excluding someone by a negative vote or veto
backlink - A backlink is an incoming link from an external website to specific webpage. For example, if you publish a webpage and 20 other websites link to it, your webpage has 20 backlinks. Links to the page from within your own website are not included in the backlink total.
bandwidth -Bandwidth describes the maximum data transfer rate of a network or Internet connection. It measures how much data can be sent over a specific connection in a given amount of time. For example, a gigabit Ethernet connection has a bandwidth of 1,000 Mbps, (125 megabytes per second). An Internet connection via cable modem may provide 25 Mbps of bandwidth.
base Station - The term "base station" was first used to refer to the towers you see on the side of the road that relay cell phone calls. These stations handle all cellular calls made within their area, receiving information from one end of the call and transmitting it to the other.
basic - Stands for "Beginner's All purpose Symbolic Instruction Code." BASIC is a computer programming language that was developed in the mid 1960s to provide a way for students to write simple computer programs. Since then, the language has evolved into a more robust and powerful language and can be used to create advanced programs for today's computer systems.
beta software - Beta software refers to computer software that is undergoing testing and has not yet been officially released. 
bitmap -  A bitmap is a map of dots, or bits (hence the name), that looks like a picture as long you are sitting a reasonable distance away from the screen.
bios - Stands for "Basic Input/Output System." Most people don't need to ever mess with the BIOS on a computer, but it can be helpful to know what it is. The BIOS is a program pre installed on Windows based computers (not on Macs) that the computer uses to start up. The CPU accesses the BIOS even before the operating system is loaded. The BIOS then checks all your hardware connections and locates all your devices. If everything is OK, the BIOS loads the operating system into the computer's memory and finishes the boot up process.
boot - to boot a computer is to turn it on.
bus - Each bus inside a computer consists of set of wires that allow data to be passed back and forth.
cache - This term is pronounced like "cash" not "catch," and definitely not "cashé." There are many different types of caches but they all serve the same purpose. A cache stores recently used information in a place where it can be accessed extremely fast. For example, a Web browser like Internet Explorer uses a cache to store the pages, images, and URLs of recently visted Web sites on your hard drive.
cad - Stands for "Computer Aided Design." Also known by engineers and architects as the best invention of all time. Today, CAD software is used for nearly all three dimensional designing. Designers can turn an object into an electronic representation more quickly and accurately than by diagraming it with a pencil and paper. Better yet, objects created with CAD software can be moved, resized, and rotated instantly.
camera RAW - Most digital cameras process and compress the pictures you take immediately after capturing the image. This can be helpful, as it keeps the file sizes low (using JPEG compression) and takes care of color correction, including white balance, tint, and exposure, so you don't have to. However, some people, such as professional photographers, prefer to have more control over how each image is processed. Therefore, many high end cameras have the ability to shoot in RAW mode. This mode does not compress the images at all and leaves them completely unprocessed.
captcha - A captcha is program used to verify that a human, rather than a computer, is entering data.
cdma - "Code Division Multiple Access." 
cisc - Stands for "Complex Instruction Set Computing." This is a type of microprocessor design. The CISC architecture contains a large set of computer instructions that range from very simple to very complex and specialized. Though the design was intended to compute complex instructions in the most efficient way, it was later found that many small, short instructions could compute complex instructions more efficiently. This led to a design called Reduced Instruction Set Computing (RISC), which is now the other major kind of microprocessor architecture.
clean Install - A clean install is an operating system (OS) installation that overwrites all other content on the hard disk. 
crop - When you crop an image or photo, you remove part of the image.
crt - Stands for "Cathode Ray Tube." CRT is the technology used in traditional computer monitors and televisions. The image on a CRT display is created by firing electrons from the back of the tube to phosphors located towards the front of the display. Once the electrons hit the phosphors, they light up and are projected on the screen. The color you see on the screen is produced by a blend of red, blue, and green light, often referred to as RGB.
dac - Stands for "Digital to Analog Converter" and is often pronounced "dac." Since computers only recognize digital information, the output produced by computers is typically in digital format. However, some output devices only accept analog input, which means a digital to analog converter, or DAC, must be used.
daemon -The word "daemon" actually comes from the Greek language, meaning an "inner or attendant spirit" (Oxford American Dictionary). This is a fitting name, as a computer daemon is a constantly running program that triggers actions when it receives certain input.
data Type - A data type is a type of data. Of course, that is rather circular definition, and also not very helpful. Therefore, a better definition of a data type is a data storage format that can contain a specific type or range of values.
daw - Stands for "Digital Audio Workstation." A DAW is a digital system designed for recording and editing digital audio. It may refer to audio hardware, audio software, or both.
dbms -Stands for "Database Management System." In short, a DBMS is a database program. Technically speaking, it is a software system that uses a standard method of cataloging, retrieving, and running queries on data. The DBMS manages incoming data, organizes it, and provides ways for the data to be modified or extracted by users or other programs.
dcim - Digital Camera Images.
ddl - Data Definition Language.
ddr2 - Stands for "Double Data Rate 2." DDR2 RAM is an improved version of DDR memory that is faster and more efficient. Like standard DDR memory, DDR2 memory can send data on both the rising and falling edges of the processor's clock cycles. This nearly doubles the amount of work the RAM can do in a given amount of time. DDR and DDR2 are also both types of SDRAM, which allows them to run faster than conventional memory.
dhcp - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol.
digital signature - digital signatures are used to authenticate the contents of electronic documents. They can be used with PDF, e mail messages, and word processing documents.
dithering - it is a process that uses digital noise to smooth out colors in digital graphics and sounds in digital audio.
emoticon - These are the little text based faces and objects that you often see in e mail and online chat. They help give the reader a sense of the writer's feelings behind the text. For example, the classic =) face shows that the writer is happy about something or that his message in good humor.
emulation - The term "emulation" comes from the verb "emulate," which means to imitate or reproduce. Therefore, computer emulation is when one system imitates or reproduces another system. This can be done using hardware, software, or a combination of the two. However, since hardware is expensive to reproduce, most emulation is done via software.
encoding - Encoding is the process of converting data from one form to another. While "encoding" can be used as a verb, it is often used as a noun, and refers to a specific type of encoded data. There are several types of encoding, including image encoding, audio and video encoding, and character encoding.
encryption - Encryption is the coding or scrambling of information so that it can only be decoded and read by someone who has the correct decoding key. Encryption is used in secure Web sites as well as other mediums of data transfer. If a third party were to intercept the information you sent via an encrypted connection, they would not be able to read it.
exabyte - One exabyte (abbreviated "EB") is equal to 1,000 petabytes and precedes the zettabyte unit of measurement.
ecc - Error Correction Code.
edutainment - Edutainment is one of those combo words, like "guesstimate," that combines two regular words into one term that really isn't a word. As you may have guessed, "edutainment" is a blend of education and entertainment. This term is used to describe various forms of entertainment that also educate. Some examples include "Sesame Street," shows on the Discovery channel, and websites such as HowStuffWorks.com.
fat32 - This strange term refers to the way Windows stores data on your hard drive. "FAT" stands for "File Allocation Table," which keeps track of all your files and helps the computer locate them on the disk. Even if a file gets fragmented (split up into various areas on the disk), the file allocation table still can keep track of it. FAT32 is an improvement to the original FAT system, since it uses more bits to identify each cluster on the the disk.
fddi - Stands for "Fiber Distributed Data Interface." FDDI is a group of networking specifications standardized by ANSI in the mid 1980s. An FDDI network supports data transfer speeds of 100 Mbps over a fiber optic cable and uses a rotating token to define which system can send data at any given time.
fifo - Stands for "First In, First Out." FIFO is a method of processing and retrieving data. In a FIFO system, the first items entered are the first ones to be removed. In other words, the items are removed in the same order they are entered.
file Compression - reduce the file size of one or more files.
file Extension - A file extension (or simply "extension") is the suffix at the end of a filename that indicates what type of file it is.
firewall - The term "firewall" originally referred to fireproof walls that were designed to prevent the spread of fire from one room or building to the next. They were typically made of brick, steel, or another type of inflammable material that would effectively limit the spread of the fire. In the IT world, firewalls do not involve any fire or pyrotechnics, but they serve a similar purpose.
firewire - FireWire is an I/O interface developed by Apple Computer. It is also known as IEEE 1394, which is the technical name standardized by the IEEE. Other names for IEEE 1394 include Sony i.Link and Yamaha mLAN, but Apple's FireWire name the most commonly used.
flash memory - Flash memory is a type of electrically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM). Whew, that's a mouthful. The name comes from how the memory is designed  a section of memory cells can be erased in a single action or in a "flash." A common use of flash memory is to store the BIOS settings in a computer's ROM. When the BIOS needs to be changed, the flash memory can be written in blocks, rather than bytes, making it easy to update.
full duplex - Full duplex, or simply "duplex," is a type of communication in which data can flow two ways at the same time. Full duplex devices, therefore, can communicate back and forth simultaneously.
gateway - A gateway is either hardware or software that acts as a bridge between two networks so that data can be transferred between a number of computers. For example, when you send an e mail to a friend or when you log in to a Web site, there is a gateway that allows the connection take place. Often, your connection to a Web site will involve many smaller connections to other servers along the way.
gibibyte - a unit of data storage that equals 2 to the 30th power, or 1,073,741,824 bytes.One gigabyte (abbreviated "GB") is equal to 1,000 megabytes and precedes the terabyte unit of measurement. While a gigabyte is technically 1,000,000,000 bytes, in some cases, gigabytes are used synonymously with gibibytes, which contain 1,073,741,824 bytes (1024 x 1,024 x 1,024 bytes).
gif - The letters "GIF" actually stand for "Graphics Interchange Format," but you don't need to remember that. What you should know is that a GIF is a compressed image file format. GIF images use a compression formula originally developed by CompuServe (which is why you see the term "CompuServe GIF" in Photoshop, for those of you that care). GIFs are based on indexed colors, which is a palette of at most 256 colors.
gnutella - Gnutella is a file sharing network that allows users to send and receive files over the Internet. The first part of its name comes from the GNU General Public License, which originally allowed the source of the program to be made available to the public. The second part of the name comes from Nutella, a chocolate hazelnut spread, which apparently the developers ate a lot of while working on the project.
gps - Global Positioning System.
grayscale - Grayscale is a range of monochromatic shades from black to white. Therefore, a grayscale image contains only shades of gray and no color.
guid - Stands for "Globally Unique Identifier." A GUID is a 128 bit (16 byte) number used by software programs to uniquely identify the location of a data object. Some examples of data that include GUIDs are streaming media files, Windows registry entries, database keys, and various file types. GUIDs are typically written in hexadecimal notation, containing 32 digits, 
half Duplex - Half duplex is a type of communication in which data can flow back and forth between two devices, but not simultaneously. Each device in a half duplex system can send and receive data, but only one device can transmit at a time.
halftone -A halftone image is made up of a series of dots rather than a continuous tone. These dots can be different sizes, different colors, and sometimes even different shapes. Larger dots are used to represent darker, more dense areas of the image, while smaller dots are used for lighter areas.
hard Token -A hard token, sometimes called an "authentication token," is a hardware security device that is used to authorize a user. An common example of a hard token is a security card that gives a user access to different areas of building or allows him to log in to a computer system. Some hard tokens are used in combination with other security measures to further enhance security.
hashtag -A hashtag is a number symbol (#) used to label keywords in a tweet. The name "hashtag" was coined by Twitter and combines the word "hash" (another name for the number symbol) and "tag," since it is used to tag certain words. In order to tag a keyword in a Twitter post, simply type a number symbol (Shift+3) immediately before the word
hdmi - Stands for "High Definition Multimedia Interface." HDMI is a digital interface for transmitting audio and video data in a single cable. It is supported by most HDTVs and related components, such as DVD and Blu ray players, cable boxes, and video game systems.
hdv - Stands for "High Definition Video." According to a consortium of manufacturers including Sony, JVC, Canon, and Sharp, it is a "consumer high definition video format." HDV is the next step up from Mini DV, which has been used in consumer digital camcorders for several years. The HDV technology allows highdefinition video to be recorded on a Mini DV tape, using MPEG 2 compression.
heat Sink - which dissipates the heat from the processor, preventing it from overheating.
heuristic -  a "rule of thumb," or a good guide to follow when making decisions.
hibernate - benefits of sleep mode and powering down the computer is called "Hibernate."
hypermedia - Most Web navigation is done by clicking text based links that open new pages in a Web browser. These links, which are often blue and underlined, are referred to as hypertext, since they allow the user to jump from page to page. Hypermedia is an extension of hypertext that allows images, movies, and Flash animations to be linked to other content.
humanitarian - someone devoted to the promotion of human welfare and to social reforms
i/o Address - Each I/O device connected to your computer is mapped to a unique I/O (Input/Output) address. These addresses are assigned to every I/O port on your computer, including USB, Firewire, Ethernet, VGA, and DVI ports, as well as any other ports your computer might have.
icann - Stands for "Internet Corporation For Assigned Names and Numbers." The ICANN is an non profit corporation that is responsible for allocating IP addresses and managing the domain name system.
icmp - Stands for "Internet Control Message Protocol." When information is transferred over the Internet, computer systems send and receive data using the TCP/IP protocol. If there is a problem with the connection, error and status messages regarding the connection are sent using ICMP, which is part of the Internet protocol.
icq - a popular online messaging program. It is similar to instant messaging programs like AIM.
ict - Information and Communication Technologies.
ieee - Stands for the "Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers." This is a non profit organization that develops, defines, and reviews electronics and computer science standards. Though it is a U.S. based organization, standards developed by the IEEE often become International standards. Some examples of commonly used products standardized by the organization are the IEEE 1284 interface (a.k.a. Parallel Port), which many printers use, and the IEEE 1394 interface (a.k.a. Firewire), which is a super fast connection for digital video cameras, hard drives, and other peripherals.
igp - Stands for "Integrated Graphics Processor." An IGP is a graphics chip that is integrated into a computer's motherboard. The IGP serves the same purpose as a video card, which is to process the graphics displayed on the computer.
imap - Stands for "Internet Message Access Protocol" and is pronounced "eye map." It is a method of accessing e mail messages on a server without having to download them to your local hard drive. This is the main difference between IMAP and another popular e mail protocol called "POP3."
interNIC - Stands for "Internet Network Information Center." The InterNIC is an organization created by the National Science Foundation to provide Internet information and domain name registration services. While the InterNIC was started as a joint effort between Network Solutions and AT&T, it is now run by the Internet Corporation For Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN).
interlaced - common way to compress video.
ip Address - a code made up of numbers separated by three dots that identifies a particular computer on the Internet.
ipv4 - defines IP addresses in a 32 bit format, which looks like 123.123.123.123.
ipv6 - uses 128 bit addresses, which increases the number of possible addresses by an exponential amount.
ivr - Interactive Voice Response.
javascript - Like Java, this is a programming lanuguage designed by Sun Microsystems, in conjuction with Netscape, that can be integrated into standard HTML pages. While JavaScript is based on the Java syntax, it is a scripting language, and therefore cannot be used to create stand alone programs. Instead, it is used mainly to create dynamic, interactive Web pages. For example, Web developers can use JavaScript to validate form input, create image rollovers, and to open those annoying pop up windows.
java - high level programming language developed by Sun Microsystems.
jfs - Stands for "Journaled File System." JFS is a 64 bit file system created by IBM. The initial version of JFS (also called JFS1) was developed for IBM's AIX operating system and was released in 1990. In 2001, IBM released JFS2 (the Enhanced Journaled File System), as well as a version of JFS that is compatible with the Linux operating system.
jpeg - The term actually stands for "Joint Photographic Experts Group," because that is the name of the committee that developed the format. But you don't have to remember that because even computer nerds will think you're weird if you mention what JPEG stands for. Instead, remember that a JPEG is a compressed image file format. JPEG images are not limited to a certain amount of color, like GIF images are. 
jquery - jQuery is a JavaScript library that allows web developers to add extra functionality to their websites. It is open source and provided for free under the MIT license. In recent years, jQuery has become the most popular JavaScript library used in web development.
jre - Stands for "Java Runtime Environment" and may also be written "Java RTE." Java is a programming language, similar to C. However, since it is a newer language, it is not natively supported by all operating systems. Therefore, a Java Runtime Environment may need to be installed on your computer for Java applets and Java applications to run.
jumper - This is a small metal connector that acts as an on/off switch and is used to alter hardware configurations. A jumper is typically made of two wires and a small piece of metal. When the wires are connected by the metal piece, the jumper is turned on, completing the circuit. When the wires are disconnected, the jumper is turned off. Mulitple jumpers, referred to collectively as a jumper block, are often used to tell the computer how a certain device, such as a hard drive or a modem, is configured. 
jsp - "Java Server Page." as an alternative to Microsoft's active server page (ASP) technology. 
juror -  someone who serves (or waits to be called to serve) on a jury
kernel - This is a term for the computing elite, so proceed at your own risk. To understand what a kernel is, you first need to know that today's operating systems are built in "layers." Each layer has different functions such as serial port access, disk access, memory management, and the user interface itself. 
kerning - Kerning refers to the spacing between the characters of a font. Without kerning, each character takes up a block of space and the next character is printed after it. When kerning is applied to a font, the characters can vertically overlap. This does not mean that the characters actually touch, but instead it allows part of two characters to take up the same vertical space.
keylogger -  A keystroke is typing one character on a keyboard (not stroking your keyboard like a cat). Every time you hit a key, you perform a keystroke. Therefore, 5400 keystrokes in one hour means hitting 5400 keys in one hour, or 90 keys a minute (5400 keystrokes ? 60 minutes).
keystroke - typing one character on a keyboard (not stroking your keyboard like a cat).
kibibyte -  a unit of data storage that equals 2 to the 10th power, or 1,024 bytes.
kindle -  The Kindle is a portable e reader developed by Amazon.com. It allows you to download and read digital books, newspapers, magazines, and other electronic publications. The Kindle also includes a built in speaker and headphone jack for listening to audiobooks or background music.
kOffice - an integrated office suite for the K Desktop Environment (KDE).
lan - Stands for "Local Area Network," and is pronounced like "land" without the "d". (Computer people will think you're weird if you pronouce it "L A N"). A LAN is a computer network limited to a small area such as an office building, university, or even a residential home. Most mid to large sized businesses today use LANs, which makes it easy for employees to share information.
latency - Stands for "Local Area Network," and is pronounced like "land" without the "d". (Computer people will think you're weird if you pronouce it "L A N"). A LAN is a computer network limited to a small area such as an office building, university, or even a residential home. Most mid to large sized businesses today use LANs, which makes it easy for employees to share information.
lcd - Stands for "Liquid Crystal Display." LCDs are super thin displays that are used in laptop computer screens and flat panel monitors. Smaller LCDs are used in handheld TVs, PDAs, and portable video game devices. The image on an LCD screen is created by sandwiching an electrically reactive substance between two electrodes. This color of this substance can be changed by increasing or reducing the electrical current.
ldap - Stands for "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol." If you want to make directory information available over the Internet, this is the way to do it. LDAP is a streamlined version of an earlier directory standard called X.500. What makes LDAP so useful is that it works great over TCP/IP networks (unlike X.500), so information can be accessed through LDAP by anyone with an Internet connection.
led - Stands for "Light Emitting Diode." An LED is an electronic device that emits light when an electrical current is passed through it. Early LEDs produced only red light, but modern LEDs can produce several different colors, including red, green, and blue (RGB) light. Recent advances in LED technology have made it possible for LEDs to produce white light as well.
lifo - Stands for "Last In, First Out." LIFO is a method of processing data in which the last items entered are the first to be removed. This is the opposite of LIFO is FIFO (First In, First Out), in which items are removed in the order they have been entered.
linux - a Unix like operating system (OS) created by Linus Torvalds. 
listserv - This term looks like it's missing an "e", but that's how it's spelled. A listserv, or list server, is a small program that automatically sends messages to multiple e mail addresses on a mailing list. When someone subscribes to a mailing list, the listserv will automatically add the address and distribute future e mail messages to that address along with all the others on the list. When someone unsubscribes, the listserv simply removes the address.
lossless - Lossless compression reduces a file's size with no loss of quality. This seemingly magical method of reducing file sizes can be applied to both image and audio files. While JPEGs and MP3s use lossy compression, newer compression algorithms, such as JPEG 2000 and Apple Lossless compression, can be used to create lossless compressed files.
lossy - Lossy file compression results in lost data and quality from the original version. Lossy compression is typically associated with image files, such as JPEGs, but can also be used for audio files, like MP3s or AAC files. The "lossyness" of an image file may show up as jagged edges or pixelated areas. In audio files, the lossyness may produce a watery sound or reduce the dynamic range of the audio.
lte - Stands for "Long Term Evolution." LTE is a 4G telecommunications standard used for transferring data over cellular networks. It supports data transfer rates of up to 100 Mbps downstream and 50 Mbps upstream.
mac address - Stands for "Media Access Control Address," and no, it is not related Apple Macintosh computers. A MAC address is a hardware identification number that uniquely identifies each device on a network. The MAC address is manufactured into every network card, such as an Ethernet card or Wi Fi card, and therefore cannot be changed.
macintosh - Macintosh is a line of desktop and laptop computers developed by Apple. Each Macintosh computer, or Mac, runs a version of the Mac OS, Apple's desktop operating system. Since 2001, all Macs have run Mac OS X, a redesigned version of the original Mac OS that was built from the NeXTSTEP operating system.
mainframe -A mainframe is an ultra high performance computer made for high-volume, processor intensive computing. They are typically used by large businesses and for scientific purposes. You probably won't find a mainframe in any household. In the hierarchy of computers, mainframes are right below supercomputers, the most powerful computers in the world. (Which is why they are aptly named "supercomputers.") Yet a mainframe can usually execute many programs simultaneously at a high speed, whereas supercomputers are designed for a single process.
manet - Stands for "Mobile Ad Hoc Network." A MANET is a type of ad hoc network that can change locations and configure itself on the fly. Because MANETS are mobile, they use wireless connections to connect to various networks. This can be a standard Wi Fi connection, or another medium, such as a cellular or satellite transmission.
margin - a page layout term used in both print and Web publishing.
markup Language -  a computer language that uses tags to define elements within a document.
mbr - "Master Boot Record." An MBR is a small section of a hard disk or other storage device.
mebibyte - a unit of data storage that equals 2 to the 20th power, or 1,048,576 bytes.
megapixel - A megapixel is one million pixels. It is commonly used to describe the resolution of digital cameras.
mpeg - "Moving Picture Experts Group." The MPEG organization,develops standards for digital audio and video compression.
multithreading - but enables the processing of multiple threads at one time, rather than multiple processes.
multicasting - similar to broadcasting, but only transmits information to specific users.
mame Server - translates domain names into IP addresses.translates domain names into IP addresses.
mamespace - A namespace is a group of related elements that each have a unique name or identifier. There are several different types of namespaces, and each one has a specific syntax used to define the corresponding elements. Each element within a namespace has a "local name" that serves as a unique identifier.
nat - Stands for "Network Address Translation." NAT translates the IP addresses of computers in a local network to a single IP address. This address is often used by the router that connects the computers to the Internet. The router can be connected to a DSL modem, cable modem, T1 line, or even a dial up modem. When other computers on the Internet attempt to access computers within the local network, they only see the IP address of the router.
netBIOS - Stands for "Network Basic Input/Output System." NetBIOS was introduced in 1983 by IBM as an improvement to the standard BIOS used by Windows based computers. The BIOS provides an interface between the computer's operating system and the hardware. As the name implies, NetBIOS adds support for networking, including the ability to recognize other devices connected to the network.
netiquette - refers to etiquette on the Internet.
netmask - etmasks typically refer to classes of IP addresses.
nic - Stands for "Network Interface Card." Pronounced "nick," this is the card that physically makes the connection between the computer and the network cable. These cards typically use an Ethernet connection and are available in 10, 100, and 1000 Base T configurations. A 100 Base T card can transfer data at 100 Mbps.
nv ram - "NonVolatile Random Access Memory"
nybble -  set of four bits.
ntfs - Stands for "New Technology File System." NTFS is a file system introduced by Microsoft with Windows NT and is supported by subsequent versions of Windows, such as Windows 2000 and Windows XP. NTFS has a number of advantages over the previous file system, named FAT32 (File Allocation Table). One major advantage of NTFS is that it includes features to improve reliablity. For exmaple, the new technology file system includes fault tolerance, which automatically repairs hard drive errors without displaying error messages.
nui - Stands for "Natural User Interface." An NUI is a type of user interface that is designed to feel as natural as possible to the user. The goal of an NUI is to create seamless interaction between the human and machine, making the interface itself seem to disappear.
null Character - A null character is a character with all its bits set to zero. Therefore, it has a numeric value of zero and can be used to represent the end of a string of characters, such as a word or phrase.
oasis - Stands for "Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards." To someone backpacking through the Sahara, this is not the type of OASIS you want to see. But is it a welcome sight in the computer science world. OASIS is a non profit, global consortium that supports the development and adoption of e business standards.
ocr - Stands for "Optical Character Recognition." This technology is what allows you to scan that paper you lost on your hard drive, but fortunately printed out, back into your computer. When a page of text is scanned into a computer without OCR software, all the computer sees is a bunch graphical bits, or an image. In other words, it has no idea that there is text on the page, much less what the text says.
odbc - Stands for "Open Database Connectivity." With all the different types of databases available, such as Microsoft Access, Filemaker, and MySQL, it is important to have a standard way of transferring data to and from each kind of database. For this reason, the SQL Access group created the ODBC standard back in 1992.
oem - Stands for "Original Equipment Manufacturer." This refers to a company that produces hardware to be marketed under another company's brand name. For example, if Sony makes a monitor that will marketed by Dell, a "Dell" label will get stuck on the front, but the OEM of the monitor is Sony.
openGL - a 3D graphics language developed by Silicon Graphics. 
osd -  "On Screen Display."
olap - Stands for "Online Analytical Processing." OLAP allows users to analyze database information from multiple database systems at one time. While relational databases are considered to be two dimensional, OLAP data is multidimensional, meaning the information can be compared in many different ways. 
ospf - "Open Shortest Path First." OSPF is a method of finding the shortest path from one router to another in a local area network (LAN).
overclocking -  Overclocking involves increasing the clock speed of the computer's CPU past the rate at which it was originally designed to run.
parallel Port - This interface is found on the back of older PCs and is used for connecting external devices such as printers or a scanners. It uses a 25 pin connector (DB 25) and is rather large compared to most new interfaces. The parallel port is sometimes called a Centronics interface, since Centronics was the company that designed the original parallel port standard.
parity -  Parity is a mathematical term that defines a value as even or odd. For example, the number 4 has an even parity, while the number 5 has an odd parity. When even and odd values are compared, such as 4 and 5, they are considered to have different parity. If two even or odd values are compared with each other, they have the same parity.
p2p - "Peer to Peer." In a P2P network, the "peers" are computer systems which are connected to each other via the Internet.
parse - No, this is not a typo of the word "sparse." The word "parse" means to analyze an object specifically. It is commonly used in computer science to refer to reading program code. For example, after a program is written, whether it be in C++, Java, or any other language, the code needs to be parsed by the compiler in order to be compiled. Web scripts, written in scripting languages such as Perl or PHP, need to be parsed on the Web server so that they can output the correct HTML to a user's browser.
pcb - Stands for "Printed Circuit Board." A PCB is a thin board made of fiberglass or a similar material. Electrical wires are "printed" onto the board, connecting the central processor to other components on the board. Some examples of PCBs include motherboards, RAM chips, and network interface cards.
pci - "Peripheral Component Interconnect." It is a hardware bus designed by Intel and used in both PCs and Macs.
pebibyte - a unit of data storage that equals 2 to the 50th power, or 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes.While a petabyte can be estimated as 10^15 or 1,000,000,000,000,000 bytes, a pebibyte is exactly 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes. This is to avoid the ambiguity associated with the size of petabytes. A pebibyte is 1,024 tebibytes and precedes the exbibyte unit of measurement.
permalink -  "permanent link." A permalink is a URL that links to a specific news story or Web posting. 
pharming -  pharming redirects users to false websites without them even knowing it.
payload - When data is sent over the Internet, each unit transmitted includes both header information and the actual data being sent. The header identifies the source and destination of the packet, while the actual data is referred to as the payload. Because header information, or overhead data, is only used in the transmission process, it is stripped from the packet when it reaches its destination. 
phishing - Phishing is similar to fishing in a lake, but instead of trying to capture fish, phishers attempt to steal your personal information. They send out e-mails that appear to come from legitimate websites such as eBay, PayPal, or other banking institutions. The e mails state that your information needs to be updated or validated and ask that you enter your username and password, after clicking a link included in the email. Some emails will ask that you enter even more information, such as your full name, address, phone number, social security number, and credit card number.
phreaking -  the action of experimenting with or manipulating a telephone system.
podcast - audio and video broadcasts that can be played on an iPod.
ppga - "Plastic Pin Grid Array" PPGA is a type of processor design or "form factor" used by the Intel Celeron processor.
protocol - set of communication rules is called a protocol.
pum - "Potentially Unwanted Modification." A PUM is an unwanted change made to your computer's settings.
qbe - "Query By Example." QBE is a feature included with various database applications that provides a user friendly method of running database queries.
qbe - Stands for "Query By Example." QBE is a feature included with various database applications that provides a user-friendly method of running database queries. Typically without QBE, a user must write input commands using correct SQL (Structured Query Language) syntax. 
quad Core - A quad core CPU has four processing cores in a single chip. It is similar to a dual core CPU, but has four separate processors (rather than two), which can process instructions at the same time.
query - Query is another word for question. In fact, outside of computing terminology, the words "query" and "question" can be used interchangeably. For example, if you need additional information from someone, you might say, "I have a query for you." In computing, queries are also used to retrieve information. However, computer queries are sent to a computer system and are processed by a software program rather than a person.
queue - a list of jobs that are awaiting to be processed. When a job is sent to a queue, it is simply added to the list of job
quickTime - a popular format for creating and storing sound, graphics, and movie (.mov) files.
qwerty - This term is used to describe a standard (Latin alphabet based) keyboard. Why? Because the first six keys in the upper left part of the keyboard spell out QWERTY. I suppose you could call it a QWERTYUIOP keyboard, but QWERTY is a lot easier to say. In case you are wondering why the QWERTY keyboard is arranged like it is, the original reason was to reduce the jamming of typebars in typewriters as they moved to strike the paper.
raid - Stands for "Redundant Array of Independent Disks." RAID is a method of storing data on multiple hard disks. When disks are arranged in a RAID configuration, the computer sees them all as one large disk. However, they operate much more efficiently than a single hard drive. Since the data is spread out over multiple disks, the reading and writing operations can take place on multiple disks at once. This can speed up hard drive access time significantly. 
ram - Stands for "Random Access Memory," and is pronounced like the male sheep. RAM is made up of small memory chips that form a memory module. These modules are installed in the RAM slots on the motherboard of your computer.
raster graphic - Most images you see on your computer screen are raster graphics. Pictures found on the Web and photos you import from your digital camera are raster graphics. They are made up of grid of pixels, commonly referred to as a bitmap.
raw data - Raw data is unprocessed computer data. This information may be stored in a file, or may just be a collection of numbers and characters stored on somewhere in the computer's hard disk. For example, information entered into a database is often called raw data.
recursive function - A recursive function is a function that calls itself during its execution. This enables the function to repeat itself several times, outputting the result and the end of each iteration.
refresh rate - Computer monitors often have a "maximum refresh rate" listed in their technical specifications. This number, measured in hertz (Hz), determines how many times the screen is redrawn each second. Typical refresh rates for CRT monitors include 60, 75, and 85 Hz.
remote access - Remote access is just what it sounds like the ability to access your computer from a remote location. Programs like PC Anywhere (Windows), Remote Access (Mac), and Timbuktu (Windows and Mac) allow users to control remote computers from their local machine. In order for a remote access connection to take place, the local machine must have the remote client software installed and the remote machine must have the remote server software installed.
remote desktop - Remote desktop technology makes it possible to view another computer's desktop on your computer. This means you can open folders, move files, and even run programs on the remote computer, right from your own desktop. Both Windows and Macintosh computer support remote desktop connections, though they use different implementations.
repository - In software development, a repository is a central file storage location. It is used by version control systems to store multiple versions of files. While a repository can be configured on a local machine for a single user, it is often stored on a server, which can be accessed by multiple users.
rfid - Stands for "Radio Frequency Identification." RFID is a system used to track objects, people, or animals using tags that respond to radio waves. RFID tags are integrated circuits that include a small antenna. The are typically small enough that they are not easily noticeable and therefore can be placed on many types of objects.
ripping - Ripping is the process of copying data from a CD or DVD to a hard disk. This is done using a software utility, often referred to as a CD or DVD "ripper," which can extract audio or video data from optical media.
risc - Stands for "Reduced Instruction Set Computing,"and is pronounced "risk." It is arguably the fastest and most effiecient microprocessor technology available today. The RISC architechture is an improvement upon the CISC (Complex Instruction Set Computing) architecture used in the original Intel Pentium chips. In 1974, John Cocke of IBM Research was working on making a faster version of the CISC chip and came up with a design that significantly reduced the number of instructions need for performing computations.
router - This is a hardware device that routes data (hence the name) from a local area network (LAN) to another network connection. A router acts like a coin sorting machine, allowing only authorized machines to connect to other computer systems. Most routers also keep log files about the local network activity.
saas - Stands for "Software as a Service." SaaS is software that is deployed over the Internet rather than installed on a computer. It is often used for enterprise applications that are distributed to multiple users. SaaS applications typically run within a Web browser, which means users only need a compatible browser in order to access the software.
safe Mode - Safe Mode is a way for the Windows operating system to run with the minimum system files necessary. It uses a generic VGA display driver instead of the vendor specific driver, which means you will likely be working with only 16 colors in a resolution of 640x480.
samba - Samba is an open source software implementation of the SMB networking protocol used by Windows computers. (If you look closely, you can see the correlation between the two names.) Samba allows other computer platforms, such as Mac OS X, Unix, Linux, IBM System 390, and OpenVMS to interact with Windows computers on the same network.
sampling - Sampling involves taking snapshots of an audio or video signal at very fast intervals ? usually tens of thousands of times per second. The quality of the digital signal is determined largely by the sampling rate, or the bit rate the signal is sampled at. The higher the bit rate, the more samples are created per second, and the more realistic the resulting audio or video file will be. For example, CDquality audio is sampled at 44.1 kHz, or 44,100 samples per second. 
sata  - Stands for "Serial Advanced Technology Attachment," or "Serial ATA." It is an interface used to connect ATA hard drives to a computer's motherboard. SATA transfer rates start at 150MBps, which is significantly faster than even the fastest 100MBps ATA/100 drives. For this and other reasons, Serial ATA is likely to replace the previous standard, Parallel ATA (PATA), which has been around since the 1980s.
scanner - A scanner is an input device that scans documents such as photographs and pages of text. When a document is scanned, it is converted into a digital format. This creates an electronic version of the document that can be viewed and edited on a computer.
scareware - Scareware, also known as "rogue security software," is software that uses false error messages to lure you into purchasing a software program. These alerts or warnings may appear on websites or within applications installed on your computer. When you click the associated download link, the software is downloaded to your computer.
script - A computer script is a list of commands that are executed by a certain program or scripting engine. Scripts may be used to automate processes on a local computer or to generate Web pages on the Web. For example, DOS scripts and VB Scripts may be used to run processes on Windows machines, while AppleScript scripts can automate tasks on Macintosh computers. ASP, JSP, and PHP scripts are often run on Web servers to generate dynamic Web page content.
scroll Wheel - The scroll wheel typically sits between the left and right buttons on the top of a mouse. It is raised slightly, which allows the user to easily drag the wheel up or down using the index finger. 
scsi - Stands for "Small Computer System Interface," and is pronounced "scuzzy." SCSI is a computer interface used primarily for high speed hard drives. This is because SCSI can support faster data transfer rates than the commonly used IDE storage interface.
sdk - Stands for "Software Development Kit." An SDK is a collection of software used for developing applications for a specific device or operating system. Examples of SDKs include the Windows 7 SDK, the Mac OS X SDK, and the iPhone SDK.
sdram - Stands for "Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory." Yeah, it's a mouthful, but if you memorize it, you can really impress your friends. SDRAM is an improvement to standard DRAM because it retrieves data alternately between two sets of memory. This eliminates the delay caused when one bank of memory addresses is shut down while another is prepared for reading.
smtp - Stands for "Simple Mail Transfer Protocol." This is the protocol used for sending email over the Internet. Your email client (such as Outlook, Eudora, or Mac OS X Mail) uses SMTP to send a message to the mail server, and the mail server uses SMTP to relay that message to the correct receiving mail server. Basically, SMTP is a set of commands that authenticate and direct the transfer of electronic mail.
service Pack - A service pack is a software package that contains several updates for an application or operating system. Individual updates are typically called software updates or patches. When a software company has developed several updates to a certain program or operating system, the company may release all the updates together in a service pack.
servlet - A servlet is a Java program that runs on a Web server. It is similar to an applet, but is processed on the server rather than a client's machine. Servlets are often run when the user clicks a link, submits a form, or performs another type of action on a website.
session - In the computing world, a session refers to a limited time of communication between two systems. Some sessions involve a client and a server, while other sessions involve two personal computers.
skyscraper - While not as common as the banner ad, the skyscraper is another prevalent form of Web advertising. Skyscraper ads, which are tall and narrow, get their name from the tall buildings you often see in big cities. They are typically placed to the left or right of the main content on the page, which allows all or part of the ad to be visible even as the user scrolls down the window.
smtp - Stands for "Simple Mail Transfer Protocol." This is the protocol used for sending email over the Internet. Your email client (such as Outlook, Eudora, or Mac OS X Mail) uses SMTP to send a message to the mail server, and the mail server uses SMTP to relay that message to the correct receiving mail server. Basically, SMTP is a set of commands that authenticate and direct the transfer of electronic mail. 
spooling - Spooling is the process of a sending data to a spool, or temporary storage area in the computer's memory. This data may contain files or processes. Like a spool of thread, the data can build up within the spool as multiple files or jobs are sent to it. However, unlike a spool of thread, the first jobs sent to the spool are the first ones to be processed (FIFO, not LIFO).
sisd - Stands for "Service Set Identifier." An SSID is a unique ID that consists of 32 characters and is used for naming wireless networks. When multiple wireless networks overlap in a certain location, SSIDs make sure that data gets sent to the correct destination.
throughput - Throughput refers to how much data can be transferred from one location to another in a given amount of time. It is used to measure the performance of hard drives and RAM, as well as Internet and network connections.
twain - Other than being the last name of the author of "Huckleberry Finn," there are numerous other ideas concerning the origin of this term. Some believe it stands for "Toolkit Without An Informative Name," while others argue it is "Technology Without An Interesting Name." Still, there are some who believe that it came from the saying, "Ne'er the twain shall meet."
truncate - To truncate something is to shorten it, or cut part of it off. In computer science, the term is often used in reference to data types or variables, such as floating point numbers and strings.
typeface - A typeface is a set of characters of the same design. These characters include letters, numbers, punctuation marks, and symbols. Some popular typefaces include Arial, Helvetica, Times, and Verdana. While most computers come with a few dozen typefaces installed, there are thousands of typefaces available. Because they are vector based (not bitmaps), typefaces can be scaled very large and still look sharp.
tag -  In Web pages, tags indicate what should be displayed on the screen when the page loads. Tags are the basic formatting tool used in HTML (hypertext markup language) and other markup languages, such as XML. For example, to create a table on a Web page, the <table> tag is used. The data that should be inside the table follows the <table> tag, and the table is closed with a </table> tag.
tcp/ip - Stands for "Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol." These two protocols were developed in the early days of the Internet by the U.S. military. The purpose was to allow computers to communicate over long distance networks. The TCP part has to do with the verifying delivery of the packets. The IP part refers to the moving of data packets between nodes. TCP/IP has since then become the foundation of the Internet.
tebibyte - A tebibyte is a unit of data storage that equals 2 to the 40th power, or 1,099,511,627,776 bytes.
uddi - Stands for "Universal Description Discovery and Integration." UDDI is a protocol that allows businesses to promote, use, and share services over the Internet. It is an OASIS Standard, which is supported by several major technology companies. Members include Microsoft, Cisco, Oracle, Avaya, Sun Microsystems, and others.
udp - Stands for "User Datagram Protocol." It is part of the TCP/IP suite of protocols used for data transferring. UDP is a known as a "stateless" protocol, meaning it doesn't acknowledge that the packets being sent have been received. 
ultra DMA - This technology for transferring data between a computer's hard disk and memory was developed by Quantum and Intel. The maximum burst rate of an Ultra DMA hard drive is 33.3 MBps. The original DMA (Direct Memory Access) protocol could only transfer data at half that speed.
uml - Stands for "Unified Modeling Language." This is a programming language that is used for object oriented software development. To organize program code more efficiently, programmers often create "objects" that are sets of structured data within programs. UML, which has been standardized by the Object Management Group (OMG), was designed for this purpose.
unicode - Unicode is a universal character encoding standard. It defines the way individual characters are represented in text files, web pages, and other types of documents.
unix - Also known as UNIX, though the letters do not stand for anything. The Unix operating system was first created in Bell Labs way back in the 1960s. It became popular in the 1970s for high level computing, but not on the consumer level. Since a lot of Internet services were originally hosted on Unix machines, the platform gained tremendous popularity in the 1990s. It still leads the industry as the most common operating system for Web servers.
unmount - Unmounting a disk makes it inaccessible by the computer. Of course, in order for a disk to be unmounted, it must first be mounted. When a disk is mounted, it is active and the computer can access its contents. Since unmounting a disk prevents the computer from accessing it, there is no risk of the disk being disconnected in the middle of a data transfer. 
utility - Utility programs, commonly referred to as just "utilities," are software programs that add functionality to your computer or help your computer perform better. These include antivirus, backup, disk repair, file management, security, and networking programs. Utilities can also be applications such as screensavers, font and icon tools, and desktop enhancements. 
vaporware - Vaporware is hardware or software that has been announced, but has missed its release date by a significant amount of time. It includes both products that are eventually released and products that are never released at all.
vosl - Stands for "Very high bit rate Digital Subscriber Line." VDSL (sometimes called "VHDSL") is a DSL standard that provides high speed Internet access. It is an improved version of ADSL (asymmetric DSL) that offers download speeds of up to 52 Mbps (6.5 megabytes per second) and upload speeds up to 16 Mbps (2 megabytes per second).
veronica - The name actually stands for "Very Easy Rodent Oriented Netwide Index to Computerized Archives." Pretty weird, I know. The "rodent" part of the acronym refers to how the Veronica utility allows you to search all of the world's gopher servers using keywords. (That's about 10 million items from over 6,000 gopher servers.) After searching for the terms, Veronica displays a list of gopher menus and articles containing the key words you searched for.
vfat - Stands for "Virtual File Allocation Table." Older Windows operating systems (Windows ME and earlier) used a file system called "FAT" or "FAT32." The file system is what the operating system uses to organize and access files on the hard drive. VFAT, introduced with Windows 95, was an improvement to the basic FAT file system, allowing more information to be stored for each file.
vga - Stands for "Video Graphics Array." It is the standard monitor or display interface used in most PCs. Therefore, if a montior is VGA compatible, it should work with most new computers. The VGA standard was originally developed by IBM in 1987 and allowed for a display resolution of 640x480 pixels.
virtual Memory - Memory is hardware that your computer uses to load the operating system and run programs. It consists of one or more RAM chips that each have several memory modules. The amount of real memory in a computer is limited to the amount of RAM installed. Common memory sizes are 256MB, 512MB, and 1GB.
visual Basic - Visual Basic is a programming language and development environment created by Microsoft. It is an extension of the BASIC programming language that combines BASIC functions and commands with visual controls. Visual Basic provides a graphical user interface GUI that allows the developer to drag and drop objects into the program as well as manually write program code.
voIP - Stands for "Voice Over Internet Protocol," and is often pronounced "voip." VoIP is basically a telephone connection over the Internet. The data is sent digitally, using the Internet Protocol (IP) instead of analog telephone lines.
vpi - Stands for "Virtual Path Identifier." The VPI is an 8 bit header inside each ATM cell that indicates where the cell should be routed. ATM, or asynchronous transfer mode, is a method of sending data in small packets of fixed sizes. 
vram - Stands for "Video Random Access Memory" and is pronounced "V RAM." System RAM is great for loading and running programs, but when you need graphics power, VRAM is where it's at. This is the memory used to store image data that the computer displays; it acts as a buffer between the CPU and the video card.
vrml - Stands for "Virtual Reality Modeling Language." If you think this has something to do with HTML, you're right. While HTML is the format for Web page production, VRML is a 3D navigation specification, which enables the creation of interactive 3D Web sites. 
wais - Stands for "Wide Area Information Server." This is a program that can index enormous amounts of information and make it searchable across large networks (including the Internet). 
wan - Stands for "Wide Area Network." It is similar to a Local Area Network (LAN), but it's a lot bigger. Unlike LANs, WANs are not limited to a single location. Many wide area networks span long distances via telephone lines, fiber-optic cables, or satellite links. They can also be composed of smaller LANs that are interconnected. 
wave - WAVE is an audio format used to store sound data. It is is similar to the AIFF format, but is based on the Resource Interchange File Format (RIFF), a container format designed to store data in "chunks." Therefore, each WAVE file contains one or more chunks that store audio data or other information.
wavelength - Wavelength is the distance between two identical adjacent points in a wave. It is typically measured between two easily identifiable points, such as two adjacent crests or troughs in a waveform. While wavelengths can be calculated for many types of waves, they are most accurately measured in sinusoidal waves, which have a smooth and repetitive oscillation.
wddm - Stands for "Windows Display Driver Model." WDDM is a display driver architecture introduced with Windows Vista. It improves graphics performance over the previous Windows XP architecture by more fully utilizing a computer's GPU to render system graphics.
web host - The Web host stores all the pages of your website and makes them available to computers connected to the Internet. The domain name, such as "sony.com," is actually linked to an IP address that points to a specific computer. When somebody enters your domain name into their browser's address field, the IP address is located and Web site is loaded from your Web host.
web ring - A Web ring is a way of interlinking related Web sites so that people can visit many similar Web sites by just following the "Web ring" link on each page. Most Web rings allow people to browse backwards or forwards through the sites in the ring, or choose to visit individual sites from a list.
webmaster - The webmaster is the person in charge of maintaining a Web site. The jobs of a webmaster include writing HTML for Web pages, organizing the Web site's structure, responding to emails about the Web site, and keeping the site uptodate.
wep - Stands for "Wired Equivalent Privacy." WEP is a security protocol for WiFi networks. Since wireless networks transmit data over radio waves, it is easy to intercept data or "eavesdrop" on wireless data transmissions. The goal of WEP is to make wireless networks as secure as wired networks, such as those connected by Ethernet cables.
wimax - WiMAX is a wireless communications standard designed for creating metropolitan area networks (MANs). It is similar to the Wi Fi standard, but supports a far greater range of coverage. While a WiFi signal can cover a radius of several hundred feet, a fixed WiMAX station can cover a range of up to 30 miles. Mobile WiMAX stations can broadcast up to 10 miles.
win32 - This is the Windows application programming interface (API) for developing 32bit applications. It has been used for Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows NT, and newer Windows operating systems. This means that if you use Windows 95 or later, you can run 32 bit applications on your computer. Win32 is a term that is important to programmers, but is not crucial for the average user to know.
wysisyg - Stands for "What You See Is What You Get," and is pronounced "wihzeewig." WYSIWYG refers to software that accurately represents the final output during the development phase. For example, a desktop publishing program such as Photoshop is a WYSIWYG graphics program because it can display images on the screen the same way they will look when printed on paper.
xhtml - Stands for "Extensible Hypertext Markup Language." Yes, apparently "Extensible" starts with an "X." XHTML is a spinoff of the hypertext markup language (HTML) used for creating Web pages. It is based on the HTML 4.0 syntax, but has been modified to follow the guidelines of XML, the Extensible Markup Language. Therefore, XHTML 1.0 is sometimes referred to as HTML 5.0.
xml - Stands for "Extensible Markup Language." (Yes, technically it should be EML). XML is used to define documents with a standard format that can be read by any XML compatible application. The language can be used with HTML pages, but XML itself is not a markup language. Instead, it is a "metalanguage" that can be used to create markup languages for specific applications.
xslt - Stands for "Extensible Style Sheet Language Transformation." While XML is supposed to be a standardized language, not allow XML documents use the same type of formatting. Therefore, the documents sometimes need to be "transformed," or modified so that another script or program will be able to read them. XSLT make this transition possible.
y2k - Stands for "Year 2000." However, this term is more often used to refer to the "Millenium Bug." This bug is a little creature that lives inside older computers. When the year 2000 rolls around, the little bug will self destruct, blowing up the computer it was residing in. The chain of explosions across the world will be catastrophic, causing global panamonia and LA riots. 
yobibyte - While a yottabyte can be estimated as 10^24 or 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 bytes, a yobibyte is exactly 1,208,925,819,614,629,174,706,176 bytes.
youtube - YouTube is a video sharing service that allows users to watch videos posted by other users and upload videos of their own. The service was started as an independent website in 2005 and was acquired by Google in 2006. 
zero Day Exploit - A zero day exploit is a malicious computer attack that takes advantage of a security hole before the vulnerability is known. This means the security issue is made known the same day as the computer attack is released. In other words, the software developer has zero days to prepare for the security breach and must work as quickly as possible to develop a patch or update that fixes the problem.
zettabyte - A zettabyte is 1021 or 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 bytes.
zif - Stands for "Zero Insertion Force." ZIF is a type of CPU socket on a computer motherboard that allows for the simple replacement or upgrade of the processor. Processors that use a ZIF socket can easily be removed by pulling a small release lever next to the processor and lifting it out.
zip - Windows users will see this term a lot when looking for files on the Internet. A zip file (.zip) is a "zipped" or compressed file. For example, when you download a file, if the filename looks like this: "filename.zip," you are downloading a zipped file. "Zipping" a file involves compressing one or more items into a smaller archive. A zipped file takes up less hard drive space and takes less time to transfer to another computer. This is why most Windows files that you find on the Internet are compressed.
zone File - A zone file is stored on a name server and provides information about one or more domain names. Each zone file contains a list of DNS records with mappings between domain names and IP addresses. These records define the IP address of a domain name, the reverse lookup of an IP to other domains, and contain DNS and mail server information.